New article "Crash analyzer tool" (#3086)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/crash-analyzer/index.md

Author: per offline:
Shape the story for 3P customers?
How should we advise them to get crash stacktraces?
Should they use the typescript code from the doc?
Where do the stacktraces end up, where can they copy them from?

Author: Was the Crash Analyzer tool made for internal MS teams who get their stacktraces from Watson?

@robpaveza - from p.b.'s post

Author: Could you help us shape the story for 3P customers?
* How should we advise them to get crash stacktraces?
* Should they use this .md file's typescript code listing (from .doc)?
* Where do the stacktraces end up; where can user copy the stacktrace from?

rendered article:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/crash-analyzer/index?branch=pr-en-us-3086

@robpaveza - questions from p.b.'s post

1. First, you collect specially-formatted stack traces from your web app in production.

   There are many ways to collect stack traces from the browsers your users are using. In [Collect stack traces in production](#collect-stack-traces-in-production), below, we provide examples and recommendations. We also explain how to format the stack traces so that they can be analyzed in the **Crash analyzer** tool.

1. Next, you analyze the stack traces in the **Crash analyzer** tool.

   In [Analyze stack traces in the Crash analyzer tool](#analyze-stack-traces-in-the-crash-analyzer-tool), below, we explain how to first make source maps accessible in DevTools, and then how to use the **Crash analyzer** tool to analyze the stack traces.

<!-- TODO: add a diagram explaining how the system works -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Collect stack traces in production

The **Crash analyzer** tool doesn't collect stack traces for you. You must first collect stack traces from your web app by using the tools and services that are available to you.  Here are some ways to collect stack traces in production:

> * We recommend using a telemetry system such as [Azure Monitor Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview) which can capture unhandled error information from your JavaScript code in production.

Author: ```suggestion
* We recommend using a telemetry system such as [Azure Monitor Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview) that can capture information about unhandled errors from your JavaScript code.
```
I'm trying this rewording @captainbrosset

---
title: Crash analyzer tool
description: How to use the Crash analyzer tool in DevTools to analyze and diagnose crashes of your production web app.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: devtools
ms.date: 05/14/2024
---
# Crash analyzer tool

Use the **Crash analyzer** tool to analyze and quickly diagnose crashes of your production web app.  In the **Crash analyzer** tool, you can input a JavaScript stack trace, such as for non-fatal JavaScript exceptions, and then have your source maps applied to the stack trace so that you can debug faster.  The **Crash analyzer** tool enables you to take a minified JavaScript stack trace and rapidly work backwards to determine what lines of code caused the error.

![The Crash analyzer tool](./index-images/crash-analyzer.png)

> <!-- todo: Create new demo page & use it in this article.

Author: Create demo webpage or app

Author: [DevTools Crash analyzer demo](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.html)

https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.html

Or, use page/file:
https://devblogs.microsoft.com/oldnewthing/
devtools://devtools/bundled/panels/elements/elements.js
devtools://devtools/bundled/ui/components/tree_outline/tree_outline.js

show stacktrace content in DevTools
-->

> When a web app crashes or hangs unexpectedly, this can result in data loss and a poor user experience.  The **Crash analyzer** tool helps you identify the cause of these crashes.  Use the **Crash analyzer** tool to analyze the memory state of your web app at the time of a crash.  You can access The **Crash analyzer** tool from the **Memory** tool, which displays a list of recent crashes<!-- todo: true? --> that occurred in your web app.

Author: Does **Memory** tool display a list of recent crashes that occurred in your web app?

Author: deleted sentence

As a web developer, you collect stack traces from customers in production, and then use the **Crash analyzer** tool to "beautify" the stack traces in DevTools.  DevTools only does the analysis of the stack traces, not the collecting of stack traces.

> As an alternative approach, you can collect local stack traces by triggering a crash dump manually by clicking the **Take snapshot** button in the **Memory** tool.<!-- todo: true? -->

Author: Can you collect local stack traces by triggering a crash dump manually by clicking the **Take snapshot** button in the **Memory** tool?  per blog

Author: deleted sentence

    at new t (https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.bundle.js:1:2063)
    at https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.bundle.js:1:2857
    at https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.bundle.js:1:2896
```

Variable and function names are often shortened, like the variable `t` above. Script URLs often point to a built single-line bundle file, like the `prod.bundle.js` file above.

By comparison, here is an example of an unminified stack trace, with original variable and function names, and original source file names and line numbers:

```
Uncaught Error: test error
    at shorten (util.ts:9:9)
    at processUIString (util.ts:2:10)
    at todoMarkupBuilder (todo.ts:35:41)
    at Todo.render (todo.ts:24:12)
    at app.ts:36:39
    at Array.map (<anonymous>)
    at App.render (app.ts:36:22)
    at new App (app.ts:29:10)
    at index.ts:9:13
    at index.ts:9:33
```

There are two steps to analyze minified production stack traces in the **Crash analyzer** tool:

1. First, you collect specially formatted stack traces from your web app in production.

>    There are many ways to collect stack traces from the browsers your users are using. In [Collect stack traces in production](#collect-stack-traces-in-production), below, we provide examples and recommendations. We also explain how to format the stack traces so that they can be analyzed in the **Crash analyzer** tool.

Author: ```suggestion
   There are many ways to collect stack traces from the browsers your users are using. The section [Collect stack traces in production](#collect-stack-traces-in-production), below, provides examples and recommendations. It also explains how to format the stack traces so that they can be analyzed in the **Crash analyzer** tool.
```
moving focus away from us onto docs. 
1. put focus on the tech.
2. put focus on the docs.
3. put focus on us.

corp style guide advises against "we".  
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/w/we - "In general, don't use [we]. Focus on the customer, and avoid making Microsoft the subject.  It's OK to use phrasing like _we recommend_ if it helps you avoid awkward phrasing like _it's recommended_, but write around it if you can."

@captainbrosset

Collecting stack traces in production is not enough. The **Crash analyzer** tool needs stack traces to include a section called **Source modules**.

Here's an example of a stack trace that includes the **Source modules** section:

```
Uncaught Error: test error
    at https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.bundle.js:1:1344
    at t.render (https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.bundle.js:1:1368)
    at https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.bundle.js:1:2278
    at Array.map (<anonymous>)
    at t.render (https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.bundle.js:1:2252)
    at new t (https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.bundle.js:1:2063)
    at https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.bundle.js:1:2857
    at https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.bundle.js:1:2896

Source modules:
    https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-crash-analyzer/app/prod.bundle.js 8b544e37b35d920a39d0e10f70fddc29b25d0db362741f3071eff86cef8613e9
```

> The **Source modules** section includes the URLs of the JavaScript files that are involved in the stack trace, and a hash of the content of each file.  The hash is a 64-character string of hexadecimal characters corresponding to the SHA-256 hash of the script being executed.  This is a byte-for-byte hash of the content for each JavaScript file.  The URLs and hashes make it possible for the **Crash analyzer** tool to later retrieve the source maps that were used to unminify the stack trace.

Author: ```suggestion
The **Source modules** section includes the URLs of the JavaScript files that are involved in the stack trace, and a hash of the content of each file.  The hash is a 64-character string of hexadecimal characters that corresponds to the SHA-256 hash of the script being executed.  This is a byte-for-byte hash of the content for each JavaScript file.  The URLs and hashes make it possible for the **Crash analyzer** tool to later retrieve the source maps that were used to unminify the stack trace.
```
@captainbrosset nice to tech review this change

   ```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Analyze stack traces in the Crash analyzer tool

The **Crash analyzer** tool in DevTools unminifies the specially formatted stack traces that you collected from users in production. If your source maps also contain the original source code, the **Crash analyzer** tool will show you the original file names and function names that make up the stack trace.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Make source maps accessible in DevTools

The **Crash analyzer** tool uses the **Source module** information that's in the stack trace to retrieve the source maps that correspond to the script files in the stack trace.  This means that you first need to make your source maps accessible in DevTools.

The **Crash analyzer** tool works best if your source maps are securely stored using Azure Artifacts Symbol Server.  This is because DevTools can retrieve source maps from Azure Artifacts Symbol Server on demand when analyzing your error.  See [Securely debug original code by publishing source maps to the Azure Artifacts symbol server](../javascript/publish-source-maps-to-azure.md).

> If you're not using Azure Artifacts Symbol Server, you can still use the **Crash analyzer** tool by making sure that the source maps that correspond to the stack trace are accessible to DevTools.  For example, if you've loaded source maps before by using the `//# sourceMappingURL=` comment, DevTools caches them for later reuse. To learn more, see [Source maps in DevTools](../javascript/source-maps.md#source-maps-in-devtools) in _Map the processed code to your original source code, for debugging_.

Author: ```suggestion
If you're not using Azure Artifacts Symbol Server, you can still use the **Crash analyzer** tool, by making sure that the source maps that correspond to the stack trace are accessible to DevTools.  For example, if you've loaded source maps before by using the `//# sourceMappingURL=` comment, DevTools caches the source maps for later reuse. To learn more, see [Source maps in DevTools](../javascript/source-maps.md#source-maps-in-devtools) in _Map the processed code to your original source code, for debugging_.
```

> DevTools doesn't cache source maps when the domain name is localhost. This means that if you're not using Azure Artifacts Symbol Server, the **Crash analyzer** tool will only work for stack traces that are collected from production environments, not from local development environments that use the `localhost` domain.

Author: ```suggestion
DevTools doesn't cache source maps when the domain name is `localhost`. This means that if you're not using Azure Artifacts Symbol Server, the **Crash analyzer** tool will only work for stack traces that are collected from production environments, not from local development environments that use the `localhost` domain.
```

| The **Copy unminified stack trace** (![the Copy unminified stack trace' icon](./index-images/copy-unminified-stack-trace-icon.png)) button | Produces and copies to the clipboard the full, unminified stack trace, as a stack trace in the conventional stack trace format, except with information that matches your original code, including function names, source file names, and line and column numbers. |
| The **Open Symbol Server settings** (![the 'Open Symbol Server settings' icon](./index-images/open-symbol-server-settings-icon.png)) button | Display or modify the Azure Artifacts Symbol Server settings. |
| The **How to use** (![the 'How to use' icon](./index-images/how-to-use-icon.png)) button | Opens the present article. |

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Provide feedback

Leave feedback in the [MicrosoftEdge / DevTools](https://github.com/microsoftedge/devtools) feedback repo and let us know what works well, what doesn't, and what you'd like for such features.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also

> * [Map the processed code to your original source code, for debugging](../javascript/source-maps.md) - source maps.

Author: try group as local pages then external by insert line "External:"

Author: ```
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also

* [Map the processed code to your original source code, for debugging](../javascript/source-maps.md) - source maps.
* [Crash analyzer tool is available by default](../whats-new/2024/03/devtools-123.md#crash-analyzer-tool-is-available-by-default) in _What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 123)_.
* [Debug JavaScript error stack traces by using the Crash Analyzer tool](../whats-new/2023/05/devtools-113.md#debug-javascript-error-stack-traces-by-using-the-crash-analyzer-tool) in _What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 113)_.
* [Fix JavaScript errors that are reported in the Console](../console/console-debug-javascript.md)

Demos:
* [devtools-console demo page](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-console/error.html)
* [devtools-explain-error demo page](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-explain-error/)

External:
* [throw - JavaScript | MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/throw)
* [Crash Analyzer Support npm module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@microsoft/edge-devtools-crash-analyzer-support)
```

---
title: Crash analyzer tool
description: How to use the Crash analyzer tool in DevTools.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: devtools
ms.date: 05/09/2024
---
# Crash analyzer tool

> Use the **Crash analyzer** tool to analyze Microsoft Edge crashes.  The **Crash Analyzer** tool accelerates diagnosing JavaScript errors in production.  In the **Crash analyzer** tool, you can input a JavaScript stack trace, such as for non-fatal JavaScript exceptions, and then have your sourcemaps applied to the stack trace so that you can debug faster.  The **Crash Analyzer** tool enables you to take a minified JavaScript stack trace and rapidly work backwards to determine what lines of code caused the error.

Author: revised

![The Crash analyzer tool](./index-images/crash-analyzer.png)
<!-- todo: 
maybe use page/file:
https://devblogs.microsoft.com/oldnewthing/
devtools://devtools/bundled/panels/elements/elements.js
devtools://devtools/bundled/ui/components/tree_outline/tree_outline.js

show stacktrace content in DevTools
-->

> When a web app crashes or hangs unexpectedly, this can result in data loss and a poor user experience.  The **Crash analyzer** tool helps you identify the cause of these crashes.  Use the **Crash analyzer** tool to analyze the memory state of your web app at the time of a crash.  You can access The **Crash analyzer** tool from the **Memory** tool, which displays a list of recent crashes that occurred in your web app.  You can also trigger a crash dump manually by clicking the **Take snapshot** button.

Reviewer: Regarding "You can also trigger a crash dump manually by clicking the **Take snapshot** button", is this true? The **Take snapshot** button in the **Memory** records a heap snapshot, not a crash stack trace.

Reviewer: I'm also not seeing the list of recent crashes in the **Memory** tool. Do you know if this is intended to work?

My current understanding is that the expected workflow here is web devs collect stack traces from customers in production, and then use the Crash Analyzer tool to "beautify" them in DevTools.
So DevTools only does the analysis, not the collection.

If we have ways to also collect traces in DevTools, then that's great, but I would probably talk about them in a later section, as a "By the way, you can also collect local stack traces by ..." thing, if that makes sense. I would keep the introduction and first few section focused on the expected workflow.

Author: The statement "You can also trigger a crash dump manually by clicking the **Take snapshot** button" is copied from the blog post.  Maybe it's a misstatement in the blog post, and should be fixed here.
@captainbrosset

Author: added "my understanding" summary, and added hidden todo comments/questions:
```
When a web app crashes or hangs unexpectedly, 
this can result in data loss and a poor user experience.  
The **Crash analyzer** tool helps you identify the cause of these crashes.  
Use the **Crash analyzer** tool to analyze the memory state of your web app 
at the time of a crash.  
You can access The **Crash analyzer** tool from the **Memory** tool, 
which displays a list of recent crashes<!-- todo: true? --> that occurred in your web app.

As a web developer, you collect stack traces from customers in production, 
and then use the **Crash analyzer** tool to "beautify" the stack traces in DevTools.  
DevTools only does the analysis of the stack traces, not the collecting of stack traces.

As an alternative approach, you can collect local stack traces by triggering a crash dump manually 
by clicking the **Take snapshot** button in the **Memory** tool.<!-- todo: true? -->
```

    at async Object.children (devtools://devtools/bundled/panels/elements/elements.js:1:7137)
    at async b (devtools://devtools/bundled/ui/components/tree_outline/tree_outline.js:1:4438)
    at async #v (devtools://devtools/bundled/ui/components/tree_outline/tree_outline.js:1:8182)

Source modules:
    devtools://devtools/bundled/panels/elements/elements.js 22994ef71c62ba25b9494e26da78b621c5995bff1830c183035b4c1eb7c6b12b
    devtools://devtools/bundled/ui/components/tree_outline/tree_outline.js bac7011989ae5c7870c7f2964e88a51306eb2d520236329f09be5f5850105a42
```

The additional metadata is the line `Source modules:` and the lines below it.  Each line in that section is parsed as follows:

* The line must end with a 64-character line of hexadecimal characters corresponding to the SHA-256 hash of the script being executed.  This is a byte-for-byte hash of the content for each JavaScript file.

* The rest of the line is trimmed and treated as the module name, such as `/panels/elements/elements.js`.  The module name should correspond to file names listed in the main part of the stack trace.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Producing the required stack trace format

Reviewer: This section feels unnecessary. The NPM library from the **Reporting non-fatal JavaScript exceptions or similar data to tools** section already contains this code. The expected steps for users is (as far as I can understand): 

1. Use the NPM package in your web app. The package produces stack traces formatted as the tool expects them to be. Perhaps we need a section that explains how to use the library in this NPM package. Specifically, web developers should import the library and call `installErrorStackModuleAnnotations(Error);`.
2. Put in place some kind of production stack trace collection system, such as Application Insights. This way, when your web app crashes on a customer's machine, the stack trace that got thrown when the crash occurred is recorded in your system somewhere.
3. Then, later, use the Crash Analyzer tool to "unminify" the stack traces you collected in production, which are specially formatted. This step makes use of the Symbol Server configuration to do the unminification of the stack trace. Thanks to this, web devs can see exactly where the crash happened in the code, as if they were on the customer's machine right when the crash occurred.

Reviewer: Proposed structure for the article:

1. Intro (what is the tool, how we expect it to be used)
2. How to collect crash stack traces in production (explain how to use the NPM package and link to Application Insights).
3. Analyze crash stack traces in the tool
   1. Open the tool
   2. UI items
   3. Use the tool
4. Provide feedback
5. See also

Author: Resulting outline from restructuring article guided by the above outline: 
```
# Crash analyzer tool
## Storing source maps using Azure Artifacts Symbol Server
## How to use the npm package
## Link to Application Insights
## Open the Crash analyzer tool
#### From the More tools menu
#### From the Command Menu
## UI features
## Analyze crash stack traces in the Crash analyzer tool
## Reporting non-fatal JavaScript exceptions or similar data to tools
## Required stack trace format
## Provide feedback
## See also
```

---
title: Crash analyzer tool
description: How to use the Crash analyzer tool in DevTools.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: devtools
ms.date: 03/01/2024
---
# Crash analyzer tool

Use the **Crash analyzer** tool to analyze Microsoft Edge<!--todo: review/expand--> crashes.  In the **Crash analyzer** tool, you can input a JavaScript stack trace, such as for non-fatal JavaScript exceptions, and then have your sourcemaps applied to the stack trace so that you can debug faster.

> ![The Crash analyzer tool](./index-images/crash-analyzer.png)<!-- todo: show instead a demo page that's meant to cause crashes -->

Author: show instead a relevant demo page that causes crashes
@captainbrosset

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: devtools
ms.date: 06/12/2024
---
# Crash analyzer tool

Use the **Crash analyzer** tool to analyze and quickly diagnose crashes of your web app in production.  In the **Crash analyzer** tool, you can input a JavaScript stack trace that you collected in production and then have your source maps applied to the stack trace so that you can debug faster.  The **Crash analyzer** tool enables you to take a minified JavaScript stack trace and rapidly work backwards to determine what lines of code caused the error.

<!-- TODO: Redo screenshot -->
![The Crash analyzer tool](./index-images/crash-analyzer.png)

When a web app crashes or hangs unexpectedly, this can result in data loss and a poor experience for your users.  Collecting information about the crashes that your users experience is helpful to diagnose and fix the root cause of the crashes. The **Crash analyzer** tool helps you map minified stack traces collected in production back to the original source code, so that you can quickly identify the root cause of the crashes.

There are two steps to analyze minified production stack traces in the **Crash analyzer** tool:

> 1. First, you collect specially-formatted stack traces from your web app in production.

Author: fyi should be no hyphen after "ly" - an exception.  i'll probably push commit to fix.  
@captainbrosset

Author: fixed 3x

   There are many ways to collect stack traces from the browsers your users are using. In [Collect stack traces in production](#collect-stack-traces-in-production), below, we provide examples and recommendations. We also explain how to format the stack traces so that they can be analyzed in the **Crash analyzer** tool.

1. Next, you analyze the stack traces in the **Crash analyzer** tool.

>    In [Analyze stack traces in the Crash analyzer tool](#analyze-stack-traces-in-the-crash-analyzer-tool), below, we explain how to first make source maps accessible in DevTools, and then how to use the **Crash analyzer** tool to analyze the stack traces.

Author: i'll try to reword to avoid "we".  see https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/w/we
@captainbrosset

Author: fyi it was pretty straightforward to improve wording to move focus away from "we" to the doc'n structure:

The section [Analyze stack traces in the Crash analyzer tool](#analyze-stack-traces-in-the-crash-analyzer-tool), below, explains how to first make source maps accessible in DevTools, and then how to use the **Crash analyzer** tool to analyze the stack traces.

@captainbrosset

<!-- TODO: add a diagram explaining how the system works -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Collect stack traces in production

The **Crash analyzer** tool doesn't collect stack traces for you. You must first collect stack traces from your web app by using the tools and services that are available to you.  Here are some ways to collect stack traces in production:

> * We recommend using a telemetry system such as [Azure Monitor Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview) which can capture unhandled error information from your JavaScript code in production.

Author: this "we" might be ok per
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/w/we
but still, per that page, will try to rewrite to avoid.

* You can also write JavaScript code to capture unhandled errors in your web app.  The following example shows how to use the `window.onerror` event handler to capture unhandled errors in a web app:

  ```javascript
  window.onerror = function (message, source, line, column, error) {
    // Get the stack trace from the error object.
    const stackTrace = error.stack;

    // Send the stack trace to your telemetry system.
    // Code not shown.
  };
  ```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Format the stack traces for the Crash analyzer tool

Collecting stack traces in production is not enough. The **Crash analyzer** tool needs stack traces to include a section called **Source modules**.

> Here is an example of a stack trace that includes the **Source modules** section:

Author: per corp level style guide, i'll probably change to "Here's", for more casual tone - tho that's really a guideline more for end-user docs.
@captainbrosset - it strikes me that contractions, as a desirable style, is probably originating more from end-user docs like Office, than dev docs POV.

    at K.createEdge(https://example.com/bundled/entrypoints/heap_snapshot_worker/heap_snapshot_worker.js:1:32931)
    at G.edge (https://example.com/bundled/entrypoints/heap_snapshot_worker/heap_snapshot_worker.js:1:6912)
    at G.name (https://example.com/bundled/entrypoints/heap_snapshot_worker/heap_snapshot_worker.js:1:6267)
    at f (https://example.com/bundled/entrypoints/heap_snapshot_worker/heap_snapshot_worker.js:1:30931)
    at https://example.com/bundled/entrypoints/heap_snapshot_worker/heap_snapshot_worker.js:1:31513
    at https://example.com/bundled/core/platform/platform.js:1:330
    at r (https://example.com/bundled/core/platform/platform.js:1:376)
    at r (https://example.com/bundled/core/platform/platform.js:1:425)
    at r (https://example.com/bundled/core/platform/platform.js:1:425)

Source modules:
    https://example.com/bundled/entrypoints/heap_snapshot_worker/heap_snapshot_worker.js 9e8af998e1e1bbdb3ede85775d2c64825ccaff4b835c8b4238f10952b3890144
    https://example.com/bundled/core/platform/platform.js 9a35dc3d31ba75643a6248e885e91caf800e4a293284695d1e96ab519dc563b2
```

> The **Source modules** section includes the URLs of the JavaScript files that involved in the stack trace, and a hash of the content of each file.  The hash is a 64-character string of hexadecimal characters corresponding to the SHA-256 hash of the script being executed.  This is a byte-for-byte hash of the content for each JavaScript file.  The URLs and hashes later make it possible for the **Crash analyzer** tool to retrieve the source maps used to unminify the stack trace.

Author: i'll probably insert "that are" used to unminify -- per corp-level style guide advise

Author: The URLs and hashes make it possible for the **Crash analyzer** tool to later retrieve the source maps that were used to unminify the stack trace.

1. Add the Edge DevTools Crash Analyzer Support library in your project by using npm:

   ```bash
   npm install @microsoft/edge-devtools-crash-analyzer-support
   ```

1. Import the library in your JavaScript code, and then call the `installErrorStackModuleAnnotations` function:

   ```javascript
   import { installErrorStackModuleAnnotations } from '@microsoft/edge-devtools-crash-analyzer-support';

   installErrorStackModuleAnnotations(Error);
   ```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Analyze stack traces in the Crash analyzer tool

The **Crash analyzer** tool in DevTools unminifies the specially-formatted stack traces that you collected from users in production. If your source maps also contain the original source code, the **Crash analyzer** tool will show you the original file names and function names that make up the stack trace.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Make source maps accessible in DevTools

> The **Crash analyzer** tool uses the **Source module** information in the stack trace to retrieve the source maps that correspond to the script files in the stack trace, this means that you need to make your source maps accessible in DevTools.

Author: comma before "this" is ungramm., will revise.

Author: * added first "that's"
* broke into 2 sentences.

The **Crash analyzer** tool uses the **Source module** information that's in the stack trace to retrieve the source maps that correspond to the script files in the stack trace.  This means that you need to make your source maps accessible in DevTools.

> The **Crash analyzer** tool works best if your source maps are securely stored using Azure Artifacts Symbol Server.  This is because DevTools can retrieve source maps from the Azure Artifacts Symbol Server on demand when analyzing your error.  See [Securely debug original code by publishing source maps to the Azure Artifacts symbol server](../javascript/publish-source-maps-to-azure.md).

Author: probably will change to "by using" per corp level style guide
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/using-by-using-with

Author: debatable but added "by"

The **Crash analyzer** tool works best if your source maps are securely stored by using Azure Artifacts Symbol Server.

Author: by seems odd, restored orig

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Enter a stack trace in the Crash analyzer tool

To use the **Crash analyzer** tool in DevTools:

1. Open the **Crash analyzer** tool of DevTools, as described in [Open the Crash analyzer tool](#open-the-crash-analyzer-tool), above.

> 1. Enter your specially-formatted stack trace into the left pane of the **Crash analyzer** tool:

Author: no hyphen after ly
will revise

   This loads the source maps that correspond to the source modules, and attempts to unminify any stack frames for which JavaScript or TypeScript source content was contained in the source map.

> 1. If the source code is available in your source maps for a frame, click on the frame to display the source code.

Author: according to product-level style guide overriding corp-level style guide, probably "click" not "click on".  might revise
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/procedures-instructions/describing-interactions-with-ui

Author: 1. If the source code is available in your source maps for a frame, click the frame to display the source code.

>    The original source code appears in the **Sources** tool and the line in question is highlighted:

Author: two thoughts, so will insert comma before "and"

   ![Unminified code file and line of code accessed by clicking in the right-hand pane of the Crash analyzer tab](./index-images/code-displayed-from-right-pane.png)

> 1. You can further copy the unminified stack trace by clicking the **Copy** button on the toolbar.  That produces (and copies to the clipboard) a stack trace in the conventional stack trace format, except with function names, source files, and line/column pairs that match your original code:

Author: my comprehension stumbled at "with".  might be a case covered by 
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/using-by-using-with
This probably means "added" or "add'l" - might revise to add that, to clarify.

Author: in table below, adds the word "resolved", which seems clearer.  consider revising table & this, to match.

Author: is button tooltip "Copy", or "Copy unminified stack trace"?
I'm trying to improve wording and make these two wordings the same:
```
1. You can further copy the unminified stack trace by clicking the 
   **Copy** button on the toolbar.  That produces (and copies to 
   the clipboard) a stack trace in the conventional stack trace 
   format, except with function names, source files, and line/column 
   pairs that match your original code:

| The **Copy unminified stack trace** (![the Copy unminified stack trace' icon](./index-images/copy-unminified-stack-trace-icon.png)) 
button | Copies the full, unminified stack trace, as a stack trace 
in the conventional stack trace format, except with resolved 
function names, source file names, and line and column numbers. |
```
@captainbrosset

Author: changed both spots to:

the **Copy unminified stack trace** (![the Copy unminified stack trace' icon](./index-images/copy-unminified-stack-trace-icon.png)) button ... produces and copies to the clipboard the full, unminified stack trace, as a stack trace in the conventional stack trace format, except with information that matches your original code, including function names, source file names, and line and column numbers
